Good to see you again.
In the last video, you
learned about
locality-sensitive hashing.
Now it is time to put all
this knowledge to use.
You will make an
algorithm that computes
k-nearest neighbors much
faster than brute search.
So far, we've seen
that a few planes,
such as these three,
can divide the vector
space into regions.
But are these planes
the best way to
divide up the vector space?
What if, instead, you divided
the vector space like this?
In fact, you can't know
for sure which sets of
planes is the best way to
divide up the vector space,
so why not create multiple
sets of random planes
so that you can divide up the
vector space into multiple,
independent sets of hash tables.
You can think of it like creating
multiple copies of the universe,
or a multiverse, if you will.
You can make use of
all these different sets
of random planes in
order to help us find
a good set of friendly
neighborhood vectors,
I mean, a set of
k-nearest neighbors.
So back to our multiple
sets of random planes.
Over here, for instance,
let's say you have
a vector space,
and this magenta dot in
the middle represents
the transformation
of an English word
into a French word vector.
You are trying to find
other French word vectors
that may be similar.
So maybe one universe of
random planes helped
us to determine that
this magenta vector and
these green vectors are
all assigned to the
same hash bucket.
Another entirely different set
of random planes helped us
determine that these blue vectors
are in the same hash
bucket as the red vector.
A third set of random planes
helped us determine that
these orange vectors are in
the same hash bucket
as the magenta vector.
By using multiple sets of
random planes for
locality-sensitive hashing,
you have a more robust way of
searching the vector space
for a set of vectors that are
possible candidates to
be nearest neighbors.
This is called approximate
nearest neighbors because you're
not searching the
entire vector space,
but just a subset of it.
So it's not the absolute
k-nearest neighbors,
but it's approximately
the k-nearest neighbors.
You sacrifice some precision in
order to gain efficiency
in your search.
So let's see how to make a set of
random planes in
code assuming that
your word vectors have
two dimensions and you
want to generate
three random planes.
You'll use numpy.random.normal to
generate a matrix of
three rows and two
columns, as you see here.
You'll create a vector v,
and for each random plane,
see which side of the
plane the vector is on.
So you'll find out whether
the vector v is on
the positive or negative side
of each of these three planes.
Notice that instead
of using a for
loop to work on one
plane at a time,
you can use numpy.dot to do
this in one step. Let's
call the function.
The result is that vector v is
on the positive side of each
of the three random planes.
You've already seen
how to combine
these intermediate hash values
into a single hash value,
but please, do check out
the lecture notebook
to see all the code and to
practice this last step.
As you see, locality-sensitive
hashing allows to
compute k-nearest neighbors much
faster than naive search.
This powerful tool
can be used for
many tasks related
to our vectors,
and I will show you how it can be
applied to search
in the next video.